README.md, before:

# Bobo

Bobo is a comprehensive web platform designed for parents to monitor and track the growth and development of their babies.
With a range of features, from logging milestones to accessing research-based expert advice and nutrition guides specific to a baby's age, Bobo is an essential tool for new parents.

Additionally, Bobo provides an interactive community platform with a forum and marketplace, where parents can discuss various topics and exchange baby items. For quick information and guidance,
we also offer an advanced AI chatbot.

## Tech Stack
This application is developed using `Django`, a Python-based free and open-source web framework that follows the model-view-controller (MVC) architectural pattern.
Our database of choice is `MySQL`, a widely-used, reliable, and robust relational database management system.

The application is still at an early stage;
At the current stage, we have successfully created a Django project implemented user registration and authentication. Users can sign up, log in, and navigate to the home page. 
All passwords are securely hashed for storage, ensuring user privacy and security.

## Current Features
### User Authentication:
- **User Registration**: Users can create a new account providing their email and password.
- **User Login**: Users can securely log into their account using their credentials.
- **Password Hashing**: All passwords are securely hashed for storage, ensuring user privacy and security.

### Baby Profiles:
- **Creation**: Users can create detailed profiles for their babies, including name, gender, date of birth, weight, height, parent's details and pictures.
- **Update & Deletion**: Users have the flexibility to update or delete the baby profiles.

## Setup :
To set up the project on your local machine, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the repository to your machine
`git clone https://github.com/chesahkalu/Bobo.git`

2. Navigate to the project directory:
`cd Bobo`

3. Ensure you have Python 3.8+ and pip installed. Then, set up a virtual environment and install the dependencies:
`pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

4. Set up the database
The application uses MySQL. Ensure you have it installed and running. Update the DATABASES configuration in Bobo/settings.py with your MySQL credentials.
Run the following commands to integrate your database 
`python3 manage.py makemigrations`
`python3 manage.py migrate`

5. Run the application
`python3 manage.py runserver`

## Testing
We utilize Django's testing framework for ensuring our application's robustness. 
Our test cases for now, cover user authentication, baby model creation, and various view functionalities associated with baby profiles.
You can test the application by creating a new user, logging in, and navigating to the home page. More comprehensive tests will be added as more features are implemented.

To run the tests locally, use the following command:
`python3 manage.py test 'app'`

## Contribute
We enthusiastically welcome contributions. If you encounter any bugs or have a feature suggestion, please open an issue.
Also, feel free to fork the repository and submit a pull request.
Before submitting a pull request, ensure that your changes do not break the application.
Run the tests locally and check that all are passing.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details. 
This README is subject to updates as the application evolves, so be sure to check back for the latest information.

## Authors
Chesachi victor kalu
Mayen kalu

Commit message:

most of milestone features integrated perfectly with very scanty data, Code adjustment might come soon to handle a largely populated milestone database

README.md, after:

# Bobo

Bobo is a comprehensive web platform designed for parents to monitor and track the growth and development of their babies.
With a range of features, from logging milestones to accessing research-based expert advice and nutrition guides specific to a baby's age, Bobo is an essential tool for new parents.

Additionally, Bobo provides an interactive community platform with a forum and marketplace, where parents can discuss various topics and exchange baby items. For quick information and guidance,
we also offer an advanced AI chatbot.

## Tech Stack
This application is developed using `Django`, a Python-based free and open-source web framework that follows the model-view-controller (MVC) architectural pattern.
Our database of choice is `MySQL`, a widely-used, reliable, and robust relational database management system.

The application is still at an early stage;
At the current stage, we have successfully created a Django project implemented user registration and authentication. Users can sign up, log in, and navigate to the home page. 
All passwords are securely hashed for storage, ensuring user privacy and security.

## Current Features
### User Authentication:
- **User Registration**: Users can create a new account providing their email and password.
- **User Login**: Users can securely log into their account using their credentials.
- **Password Hashing**: All passwords are securely hashed for storage, ensuring user privacy and security.

### Baby Profiles:
- **Creation**: Users can create detailed profiles for their babies, including name, gender, date of birth, weight, height, parent's details and pictures.
- **Update & Deletion**: Users have the flexibility to update or delete the baby profiles.

### Milestones, Activities, and Nutrition Guides: 
- **Milestones**: Users can log their baby's milestones, which will include the date and the description. The milestones will be displayed on the baby's profile.
- **Activities**: Users can access activities that are appropriate for their baby's age and milestone expectancy. The activities will be displayed on the baby's profile.
- **Nutrition Guides**: Users can access nutrition guides that are appropriate for their baby's age. The nutrition guides will be displayed on the baby's profile.
`Most of milestone logic have beeen integrated with very scanty data, Code adjustment might come soon to handle a largely populated milestone database`


## Setup :
To set up the project on your local machine, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the repository to your machine
`git clone https://github.com/chesahkalu/Bobo.git`

2. Navigate to the project directory:
`cd Bobo`

3. Ensure you have Python 3.8+ and pip installed. Then, set up a virtual environment and install the dependencies:
`pip3 install -r requirements.txt`

4. Set up the database
The application uses MySQL. Ensure you have it installed and running. Update the DATABASES configuration in Bobo/settings.py with your MySQL credentials.
Run the following commands to integrate your database 
`python3 manage.py makemigrations`
`python3 manage.py migrate`

5. Run the application
`python3 manage.py runserver`

## Testing
We utilize Django's testing framework for ensuring our application's robustness. 
Our test cases for now, cover user authentication, baby model creation, and various view functionalities associated with baby profiles.
You can test the application by creating a new user, logging in, and navigating to the home page. More comprehensive tests will be added as more features are implemented.

To run the tests locally, use the following command:
`python3 manage.py test 'app'`

## Contribute
We enthusiastically welcome contributions. If you encounter any bugs or have a feature suggestion, please open an issue.
Also, feel free to fork the repository and submit a pull request.
Before submitting a pull request, ensure that your changes do not break the application.
Run the tests locally and check that all are passing.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details. 
This README is subject to updates as the application evolves, so be sure to check back for the latest information.

## Authors
Chesachi victor kalu
Mayen kalu
